# Extra app ideas

Besides the core apps in Retiled such as RetiledStart and RetiledSearch, I think some extra apps would be cool. These apps won't be included in the core package nor will they be dependencies, though it may be a good idea to make all the styles used in Retiled their own package that can be pulled in as a dependency from the package manager. As a result, when publishing this on GitHub, I should probably just not include the styles with any zip file other than the "coreplusstyles" package, which includes the core apps plus the styles, as the name says. There then needs to be a "core" package and a "styles" package so it's easier to submit to package repos like the AUR. Maybe a "full" package would be useful too, containing the "core" package, the "styles" package, and every other extra package I end up developing as listed below. I'll then have a script that (with user permission) downloads the "styles" package if it's not already installed. This script can be something like "get-styles.sh", and it'll be called from the main installer script for each of the extra packages. Having it be a separate script will make updating it easier, as I'll just have to copy the main script into each package that doesn't have styles included. Not sure how I'd do this, but it would be really useful to just have one version of the install script, then have config files that include a list of files to copy and uninstall.

Also, be sure to check the sticky notes archive, as there are way more application ideas in there that aren't listed here.

- RetiledToDo: A to-do list app that feels and works like the one Microsoft developed for Windows Phone 8.x. I saw another to-do list app built with Kirigami, and it reminded me of the WP one. I really liked that app and used it for grocery lists for a little while back in 2013. Found one on GitHub that was originally built for UWP, so I forked the most up-to-date fork and renamed it and stuff: https://github.com/DrewNaylor/RetiledToDo
- Enuz: If the PinePod is real (turns out it is, but they're just headphones, so this may be better as like an alternate UI for Retiled that it can be used with), then there should probably be a music player app like Zune Music + Video on Windows Phone ("Enuz" is Zune backward, and I think it's really funny). Ideally there should be an entire UI for the PinePod (~~perhaps based on Retiled, but heavily modified~~ actually, the easiest thing to do would be to use some libraries from Retiled like allapps.py and some styles from RetiledStyles and allow people to switch out components for the volume control and launcher UI) that's like the ZuneHD Metro UI for people who liked that, and in that case "Enuz" works perfectly because we're going backward from Windows Phone to Zune. Actually, this will probably be an alternate homescreen/launcher that'll have deeplinks into the Music and Video parts of the media app, along with showing recently-played stuff in the side area like the Zune HD UI. There are a lot of things I really don't like about the Zune HD UI, such as having the way to go back being at the top, so this will be if there were a Zune HD based off Windows Phone more than a real, slightly-off recreation (obviously, none of the stuff in this repo is perfect, and I can't make it perfect for legal reasons) of the Zune HD UI. **If possible, I'd like to allow people to switch out the volume control UI so it's more like Zune (or whatever else people prefer) instead of Windows Phone, as that would make using this UI for a media player like the PinePod easier so that people can just push a volume key and slide up or down to change the volume and stuff.** May even help for accessibility since it's really big. Not sure how currently playing media will be displayed there. Maybe it'll be possible to put it somewhere, perhaps as a darkened background (may need to be partially transparent too? Not sure) for the media controls (that would be really cool and fit in with the Zune Metro aesthetic).
- NullTileMaker: An app that can create empty tiles with any color specified by the user, including fully transparent, and with any image if desired. Adding text may be a bad idea. There was a Windows Phone app that let you do this back in the day, and I used it to create a bunch of blank tiles to hide the All Apps list button after unpinning everything every time I would get around to go to his house because I didn't want them to easy figure out how to use my phone if they found it and somehow got into it (they used Android and BlackBerry, so they wouldn't be familiar with Windows Phone), and I wanted to honor that application as it was very important to me, much like Windows Phone itself and TubeCast. I might have mentioned this somewhere else as well, but that's fine. Tapping one of these empty tiles should fill in the values in the app, so the user can do further changes if necessary.
- MetroInspector
  - A QtQuick port of Inspector (https://github.com/Nokse22/inspector) using Retiled's Metro styling.
  - Can be used as an example of pinning secondary tiles as shortcuts in addition to the Settings app.
  - Where possible, the secondary tiles will display relevant data, and the items in the list that you tap to go to each page will also display the most-important thing.
  - Note: Each page gets its data from a different command.
  - The way I'll do it is there will be a main page as just a list of the available pages, and tapping an item gets you a page like the original version's tabs at the bottom. Or maybe I could do a Panorama with tiles for each page like Hardware Tests. I can't do Pivots because there are too many tabs to go through.
  - I've forked the original repo here for archival and I'll probably add my own files to it so it's all contained: https://github.com/DrewNaylor/inspector
- Untitled RSS Reader app
  - The main sources will be like distro update news, so postmarketOS edge breaking changes for example. There will also be other sources by default for distros in general so Linux Mobile users can keep up to date with what's going on in the space, and probably LinMob would be a nice source as well. Different distros will be different sources, and the ones like the pmOS edge breaking changes will hopefully be a separate feed if possible.
  - Sources will be able to be turned on and off, so several can ship and just a few turned on by default and the user can go in and turn on what they want.
  - There would be a Live Tile so news headlines can be shown without having to open up the app.
  - This can be integrated with the Contacts/People Hub, where a contact can have an RSS feed be set in their contact page, and their blog posts get put into both their specific social media posts area and the complete social media posts area that pulls from all contacts. Tapping one of the RSS feed items will open a preview that will allow sharing to another one of your social media apps as a link (or any other app that's available, even copying it to the clipboard or opening it directly in a browser), and a button to read that post in the RSS reader app.
    - All the RSS reader's "posts" will be able to be shown or hidden via the filter dropdown that already existed for social media apps like Twitter and Facebook on Windows Phone.
